5593 azure.resource manager.core readme (#21858)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-net: sdk/resourcemanager/Azure.ResourceManager.Core/README.md

# Azure ResourceManager Core client library for .NET

> This package follows the [new Azure SDK guidelines]<---(https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/general_introduction.html)--> which provide a number of core capabilities that are shared amongst all Azure SDKs, including the intuitive Azure Identity library, an HTTP Pipeline with custom policies, error-handling, distributed tracing, and much more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This package follows the [new Azure SDK guidelines](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/general_introduction.html) which provides a number of core capabilities that are shared amongst all Azure SDKs, including the intuitive Azure Identity library, an HTTP Pipeline with custom policies, error-handling, distributed tracing, and much more.
```

## Getting started 

### Install the package

Install the Azure Resources management core library for .NET with [NuGet]<---(https://www.nuget.org/)-->:

```PowerShell
Install-Package Azure.ResourceManager.Core -Version 1.0.0-beta.1
```

### Prerequisites
Set up a way to authenticate to Azure with Azure Identity.

Some options are:

> - Trough the [Azure CLI Login](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/authenticate-azure-cli).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Through the [Azure CLI Login](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/authenticate-azure-cli).
```

- Via [Visual Studio](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/overview/azure/identity-readme?view=azure-dotnet#authenticating-via-visual-studio).
- Setting [Environment Variables]<--(docs/AuthUsingEnvironmentVariables.md)-->.

More information and different authentication approaches using Azure Identity can be found in [this document](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/overview/azure/identity-readme?view=azure-dotnet).

### Authenticate the Client

> The default option to create an authenticated client is to use `DefaultAzureCredential`. Since all management APIs go through the same endpoint, in order to interact with Resources only one top-level  `AzureResourceManagerClient` has to be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default option to create an authenticated client is to use `DefaultAzureCredential`. Since all management APIs go through the same endpoint, in order to interact with Resources only one top-level  `ArmClient` has to be created.
```

> To authenticate to Azure and create an ARM client, do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To authenticate to Azure and create an ArmClient, do the following:
```

# Azure ResourceManager Core client library for .NET

> This package follows the [new Azure SDK guidelines](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/general_introduction.html) which provides a number of core capabilities that are shared amongst all Azure SDKs, including the intuitive Azure Identity library, an HTTP Pipeline with custom policies, error-handling, distributed tracing, and much more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This package follows the [new Azure SDK guidelines](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/general_introduction.html), which provide core capabilities that are shared amongst all Azure SDKs, including:

- The intuitive Azure Identity library.
- An HTTP pipeline with custom policies.
- Error handling.
- Distributed tracing.
```

```

### Prerequisites
Set up a way to authenticate to Azure with Azure Identity.

Some options are:
- Through the [Azure CLI Login](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/authenticate-azure-cli).
- Via [Visual Studio](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/overview/azure/identity-readme?view=azure-dotnet#authenticating-via-visual-studio).
- Setting [Environment Variables]<--(docs/AuthUsingEnvironmentVariables.md)-->.

More information and different authentication approaches using Azure Identity can be found in [this document](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/overview/azure/identity-readme?view=azure-dotnet).

### Authenticate the Client

> The default option to create an authenticated client is to use `DefaultAzureCredential`. Since all management APIs go through the same endpoint, in order to interact with Resources only one top-level  `ArmClient` has to be created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default option to create an authenticated client is to use `DefaultAzureCredential`. Since all management APIs go through the same endpoint, in order to interact with resources, only one top-level `ArmClient` has to be created.
```

> To authenticate to Azure and create an ArmClient, do the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To authenticate to Azure and create an `ArmClient`, do the following:
```

```csharp

>     using Azure.Identity;
>     using Azure.ResourceManager.Core;
>     using System;
>     
>     // code omitted for brevity
>     
>     ArmClient armClient = new ArmClient(new DefaultAzureCredential());

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
using Azure.Identity;
using Azure.ResourceManager.Core;
using System;
    
// code omitted for brevity
    
var armClient = new ArmClient(new DefaultAzureCredential());
```

```

> Additional documentation for the `Azure.Identity.DefaultAzureCredential` Class can be found in [this document](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additional documentation for the `Azure.Identity.DefaultAzureCredential` class can be found in [this document](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential).
```

## Key concepts
### Understanding Azure Resource Hierarchy

To reduce both the number of clients needed to perform common tasks and the amount of redundant parameters that each of those clients take, we have introduced an object hierarchy in the SDK that mimics the object hierarchy in Azure. Each resource client in the SDK has methods to access the resource clients of its children that is already scoped to the proper subscription and resource group.

To accomplish this, we're introducing 4 standard types for all resources in Azure:

#### **[Resource]Data**

> This represents the data that makes up a given resource. Typically, this is the response data from a service call such as GET and provides details about the underlying resource.
> Previously, this was represented by a **Model** class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This represents the data that makes up a given resource. Typically, this is the response data from a service call such as HTTP GET and provides details about the underlying resource. Previously, this was represented by a **Model** class.
```

#### **[Resource]Operations**

This represents a service client that's scoped to a particular resource. You can directly execute all operations on that client without needing to pass in scope parameters such as subscription ID or resource name.

#### **[Resource]Container**

This represents the operations you can perform on a collection of resources belonging to a specific parent resource.
This mainly consists of List or Create operations. For most things, the parent will be a **ResourceGroup**. However, each parent / child relationship is represented this way. For example, a **Subnet** is a child of a **VirtualNetwork** and a **ResourceGroup** is a child of a **Subscription**.

#### **[Resource]**

This represents a full resource object which contains a **Data** property exposing the details as a **[Resource]Data** type.
It also has access to all of the operations and like the **[Resource]Operations** object is already scoped
to a specific resource in Azure.

## Examples
### Add a tag to a virtual machine

>  Imagine that our company requires all virtual machines to be tagged with the owner and we are tasked with writing a program to add the tag to any missing virtual machines in a given resource group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Imagine that our company requires all virtual machines to be tagged with the owner. We're tasked with writing a program to add the tag to any missing virtual machines in a given resource group.
```

 ```csharp
// First we construct our armClient

> ArmClient armClient = new ArmClient(new DefaultAzureCredential());

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
var armClient = new ArmClient(new DefaultAzureCredential());
```

// Next we get a resource group object
// ResourceGroup is a [Resource] object from above
ResourceGroup resourceGroup = await armClient.DefaultSubscription.GetResourceGroups().GetAsync("myRgName");

// Next we get the container for the virtual machines
// vmContainer is a [Resource]Container object from above
VirtualMachineContainer vmContainer = resourceGroup.GetVirtualMachines();

// Next we loop over all vms in the container
// Each vm is a [Resource] object from above
await foreach(VirtualMachine vm in vmContainer.ListAsync())
{
    // We access the [Resource]Data properties from vm.Data
    if(!vm.Data.Tags.ContainsKey("owner"))
    {
        // We can also access all [Resource]Operations from vm since it is already scoped for us
        await vm.StartAddTag("owner", GetOwner()).WaitForCompletionAsync();
    }
}
 ```

### Create a resource group
```csharp

> // First we initialize the ArmClient and get the default subscription

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// First, initialize the ArmClient and get the default subscription
```

> ArmClient armClient = new ArmClient(new DefaultAzureCredential());

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
var armClient = new ArmClient(new DefaultAzureCredential());
```

Subscription subscription = armClient.DefaultSubscription;
// Now we get a ResourceGroup container for that subscription
ResourceGroupContainer rgContainer = subscription.GetResourceGroups();

> // With the container we can create a new resource group with an specifc name

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// With the container, we can create a new resource group with an specific name
```

string rgName = "myRgName";
ResourceGroup resourceGroup = await rgContainer.CreateAsync(rgName);
```

### List all resource groups
```csharp
// First we initialize the ArmClient and get the default subscription

> ArmClient armClient = new ArmClient(new DefaultAzureCredential());

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
var armClient = new ArmClient(new DefaultAzureCredential());
```

Subscription subscription = armClient.DefaultSubscription;

// Now we get a ResourceGroup container for that subscription
ResourceGroupContainer rgContainer = subscription.GetResourceGroups();

> // With ListAsync() we can get a list of the resources in the container

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// With ListAsync(), we can get a list of the resources in the container
```

AsyncPageable<ResourceGroup> response = rgContainer.ListAsync();
await foreach (ResourceGroup rg in response)
{
    Console.WriteLine(rg.Data.Name);
}
```

For more detailed examples, take a look at [samples]<--(samples/)--> we have available.

## Troubleshooting

> -   If you find a bug or have a suggestion, file an issue via [Github
>     Issues](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/issues) and
>     make sure you add the "Preview" label to the issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   If you find a bug or have a suggestion, file an issue via [Github issues](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/issues) and make sure you add the "Preview" label to the issue.
```

### Prerequisites

> You will need the following values to authenticate to Azure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You'll need the following values to authenticate to Azure:
```

-   **Subscription ID**
-   **Client ID**
-   **Client Secret**
-   **Tenant ID**

> The detailed instructions on how to get and set this values can be found in the [Prerequisites guide](docs/Prerequisites.md). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Detailed instructions on getting and setting these values is found in the [Prerequisites guide](docs/Prerequisites.md). 
```

### Authentication and Creating Resource Management Client

> Once the environment is setup, all you need to do is to create an
> authenticated client. Our default option is to use
> **DefaultAzureCredential** and create an **AzureResourceManagerClient**.  Since all management APIs go through the same endpoint
> you no longer need to create a new client for every resource type like before.
> 
> To authenticate to Azure and create an ARM client, simply do the
> following:
> ```csharp
>     using Azure.Identity;
>     using Azure.ResourceManager.Core;
>     using System;
>     ...
>     ArmClient armClient = new ArmClient(new DefaultAzureCredential());
> ```
> From this code snippet, we showed that in order to interact with Resources, we need to create the top-level client first **AzureResourceManagerClient**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the environment is set up, create an authenticated client. Our default option is to use `DefaultAzureCredential` and create an `AzureResourceManagerClient`. Since all management APIs go through the same endpoint, you no longer need to create a new client for every resource type.

To authenticate to Azure and create an ARM client, do the following:

```csharp
    using Azure.Identity;
    using Azure.ResourceManager.Core;
    using System;
    
    // code omitted for brevity
    
    ArmClient armClient = new ArmClient(new DefaultAzureCredential());
```

From this code snippet, we showed that in order to interact with Resources, we need to create the top-level client first **AzureResourceManagerClient**
```

> More information and different authentication approaches using Azure
> Identity can be found in [this document](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/overview/azure/identity-readme?view=azure-dotnet).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More information and different authentication approaches using Azure Identity can be found in [this document](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/overview/azure/identity-readme?view=azure-dotnet).
```

## Key concepts
### Understanding Azure Resource Hierarchy

> In order to reduce both the number of clients needed to perform common tasks and the amount of redundant parameters that each of those clients take, we have introduced an object hierarchy in the SDK that mimics the object hierarchy in Azure. Each resource client in the SDK has methods to access the resource clients of its children that is already scoped to the proper subscription and resource group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To reduce both the number of clients needed to perform common tasks and the amount of redundant parameters that each of those clients take, we have introduced an object hierarchy in the SDK that mimics the object hierarchy in Azure. Each resource client in the SDK has methods to access the resource clients of its children that is already scoped to the proper subscription and resource group.
```

> To accomplish this we are introducing 4 standard types for all resources in Azure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To accomplish this, we're introducing 4 standard types for all resources in Azure:

```

#### **[Resource]Data**

> This represents the data that makes up a given resource.  Typically this is the response data from a service call such as GET and provides details about the underlying resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This represents the data that makes up a given resource. Typically, this is the response data from a service call such as GET and provides details about the underlying resource.
```

> Previously this was represented by a **Model** class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, this was represented by a **Model** class.
```

#### **[Resource]Operations**

> This represents a service client that is scoped to a particular resource.
> You can directly execute all operations on that client without needing to pass in scope
> parameters such as subscription id or resource name.
> 
> #### **[Resource]Container**
> 
> This represents the operations you can perform on a collection of resources belonging to a specific parent resource.
> This mainly consists of List or Create operations.
> For most things the parent will be a **ResourceGroup**, however each parent / child relationship is represented this way.
> Such as a **Subnet** is a child of a **VirtualNetwork** or a **ResourceGroup** is a child of a **Subscription**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This represents a service client that's scoped to a particular resource. You can directly execute all operations on that client without needing to pass in scope parameters such as subscription ID or resource name.

#### **[Resource]Container**

This represents the operations you can perform on a collection of resources belonging to a specific parent resource.
This mainly consists of List or Create operations. For most things, the parent will be a **ResourceGroup**. However, each parent / child relationship is represented this way. For example, a **Subnet** is a child of a **VirtualNetwork** and a **ResourceGroup** is a child of a **Subscription**.
```

#### **[Resource]**

This represents a full resource object which contains a **Data** property exposing the details as a **[Resource]Data** type.
It also has access to all of the operations and like the **[Resource]Operations** object is already scoped
to a specific resource in Azure.

### Migrating from current to preview versions

> There are core differences between the current and new preview SDK.
> The main ones are:
> - The introduction of Resource Operations.
> - An structured Resource Identifier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are core differences between the current and new preview SDK. The main ones are:

- The introduction of Resource Operations.
- A structured Resource Identifier.
```

You can learn more about the main differences [in this document](docs\MigratingFromCurrentToPreview.md) and reading the examples below.

## Examples
### Add a tag to a virtual machine
 Imagine that our company requires all virtual machines to be tagged with the owner and we are tasked with writing a program to add the tag to any missing virtual machines in a given resource group.

 ```csharp
// First we construct our armClient

> ArmClient armClient = new ArmClient(new DefaultAzureCredential());

Reviewer 2: Unless someone feels strongly about it, I vote for only using the explicit type in code samples when the type isn't clear. Thoughts?

Author: @m-nash what are your thoughts on this?

I don't have a preference about this, but my first impression is that putting explicit types could help to understand how the hierarchy works and know exactly the type that each method returns. Although, it is noticeably clear in most places.

Reviewer: @scottaddie which type is not explicit in the line that is linked here?

Reviewer 2: I was advocating for the use of `var` when instantiating the `ArmClient`.

// vmContainer is a [Resource]Container object from above
VirtualMachineContainer vmContainer = resourceGroup.GetVirtualMachines();

// Next we loop over all vms in the container
// Each vm is a [Resource] object from above
await foreach(VirtualMachine vm in vmContainer.ListAsync())
{
    // We access the [Resource]Data properties from vm.Data
    if(!vm.Data.Tags.ContainsKey("owner"))
    {
        // We can also access all [Resource]Operations from vm since it is already scoped for us
        await vm.StartAddTag("owner", GetOwner()).WaitForCompletionAsync();
    }
}
 ```

### Create a resource group
```csharp
// First, initialize the ArmClient and get the default subscription
var armClient = new ArmClient(new DefaultAzureCredential());
Subscription subscription = armClient.DefaultSubscription;
// Now we get a ResourceGroup container for that subscription
ResourceGroupContainer rgContainer = subscription.GetResourceGroups();

// With the container, we can create a new resource group with an specific name
string rgName = "myRgName";
ResourceGroup resourceGroup = await rgContainer.CreateAsync(rgName);
```

### List all resource groups
```csharp

> // First we initialize the ArmClient and get the default subscription

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// First, initialize the ArmClient and get the default subscription
```

var armClient = new ArmClient(new DefaultAzureCredential());
Subscription subscription = armClient.DefaultSubscription;

// Now we get a ResourceGroup container for that subscription
ResourceGroupContainer rgContainer = subscription.GetResourceGroups();

// With ListAsync(), we can get a list of the resources in the container
AsyncPageable<ResourceGroup> response = rgContainer.ListAsync();
await foreach (ResourceGroup rg in response)
{
    Console.WriteLine(rg.Data.Name);
}
```

For more detailed examples, take a look at [samples]<--(samples/)--> we have available.

## Troubleshooting

> -   If you find a bug or have a suggestion, file an issue via [Github issues](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/issues) and make sure you add the "Preview" label to the issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   If you find a bug or have a suggestion, file an issue via [GitHub issues](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/issues) and make sure you add the "Preview" label to the issue.
```
